---
title: 'Force.com Logger, inception&#8230;'
date: '2013-11-30T22:24:18+00:00'
status: publish
permalink: '/?p=270'
author: pavel
excerpt: ''
type: post
id: p270
category:
    - SFL
tag:
    - force.com
    - logging
    - SFL
post_format: []
cleanretina_sidebarlayout:
    - no-sidebar-full-width
original_post_id:
    - '270'
dsq_thread_id:
    - '6421717906'
---
I’d like to say a few words about Force.com logger – a simple framework for logging events into the apex code which is developing by myself. Logging is the one of the most basic and most needed component of enterprise software, because we live in the real world where we can face bugs in our code and these bugs should be determined and fixed ASAP. But Force.com platform provides a logging mechanism which doesn’t allow have a full and permanent logs. The most troubles due to limits which set by Salesforce.

> The following are the limits for debug logs:
>
> – **Once a user is added, that user can record up to 20 debug logs**. After a user reaches this limit, debug logs stop being recorded for that user. Click **Reset** on the Monitoring Debug logs page to reset the number of logs for that user back to 20. Any existing logs are not overwritten.
>
> – **Each debug log can only be 2 MB**. Debug logs that are larger than 2 MB are reduced in size by removing older log lines, such as log lines for earlier System.debug statements. The log lines can be removed from any location, not just the start of the debug log.
>
> – Each organization can retain up to **50 MB of debug logs**. Once your organization has reached 50 MB of debug logs, the oldest debug logs start being overwritten.

And if the limitation regarding the maximum of 2Mb has [workaround](/?p=277), the limitation of only 20 log records per user is really trouble because your users might works in the different time zones, a troubles might appeared on weekends and finally you can have too many users which should be monitored during their activity for cases when the bug which was found by user can’t be reproduced, but potentially you have the trouble and you want to know the reason. For this purposes you need a persistent log repository which will store all logs from all users, which can be obtained when you need it.

I faced this problem from project to project and finally I started development of open source framework for logging from apex code in salesforce platform. You can find it on [github](https://github.com/pavel-slepenkov/SFLogger).

For this moment the logger provides ability for logging simple messages into attachments, but I’m going to extend this functionality by adding a few integration with a cloud storage like box.com, dropbox.com and other. Also I’d like to provide a logging by email and other channels.