---
title: 'Apex variable declaration and for loop performance'
date: '2016-08-27T09:15:50+01:00'
status: publish
permalink: '/?p=718'
author: pavel
excerpt: ''
type: post
id: p718
category:
    - apex
    - force.com
tag:
    - apex
    - 'best practice'
    - 'refactoring time'
    - salesforce
post_format: []
dsq_thread_id:
    - '5617202917'
---
I found that a few times in a different projects and now I’d share this common mistake with you.

\[code lang=”java”\]
String someVariable = ”;
… // 50 lines of code between declaration and first use
for (Account acc: accounts) {
 someVariable = acc.Some\_Field\_\_c;
 // rest of the loop
}
\[/code\]

Actually I really hate to find something like that in my codebase. What’s wrong with this code? Just one moment – the string variable which is on scope of for loop is declared outside of the for loop. That was an optimisation for some old compilers for C/C++ a many years ago. But modern compilers can optimise your code much better that you. So, just let them do that.

\[code lang=”java”\]
for (Account acc: accounts) {
 String someVariable = acc.Some\_Field\_\_c;
 // rest of the loop
}
\[/code\]

This code will be much effective that the first one. I did a few tests on Apex.

\[code lang=”java”\]
String s1;
Datetime start = System.now();
for (Integer i = 0; i &gt; 100000; i++) {
 s1 = String.valueOf(i);
}
System.debug( System.now().getTime() – start.getTime());
\[/code\]

with results:

USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|3006
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|3029
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|3189
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|3256
USER\_DEBUG \[7\]|DEBUG|3346

and run

\[code lang=”java”\]
Datetime start = System.now();
for (Integer i = 0; i &amp;lt; 100000; i++) {
 String s1 = String.valueOf(i);
}
System.debug( System.now().getTime() – start.getTime());

\[/code\]

with the following results:

USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|2954
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|2978
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|3102
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|3176
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|3205

Runs through 300.000 iterations:

**Variable declared outside the loop**
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|8260
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|8415
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|8606
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|8614
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|8739
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|8852
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|8940
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|9109
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|9184
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|9267
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|9292
USER\_DEBUG \[6\]|DEBUG|9461

**Variable declared inside the loop**
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|8093
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|8135
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|8448
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|8598
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|8785
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|8948
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|9032
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|9087
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|9122
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|9260
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|9330
USER\_DEBUG \[5\]|DEBUG|9347

*\*Results was sorted for better readability*

As you can see the code which use a declaration of variables inside the loop works faster or with the same time of execution. But such code is much more supportable and readable.